'\" t
...\" ** $Id: XltAnimatedButton.3.in,v 1.1 2001/06/22 21:38:52 amai Exp $
...\" **
.TH XltAnimatedButton 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Rick Scott
.ds ]W Xlt Version 13.0.13
.SH NAME
\fIXltAnimatedButton\fP \- The AnimatedButton widget class
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xlt/AnimatedButton.h>
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
AnimatedButton is a sub-class of BubbleButton and inherits all of BubbleButton's
functionality.  The default value of the BubbleButton resource XltNshowBubble
is overridden to False.  If you want a bubble for the AnimatedButton simple
set this resource to True.
.PP 
Next paragraph
.PP 
Next paragraph
.SS "Classes"
AnimatedButton inherits behavior and resources from
\fICore\fP,
\fIPrimitive\fP,
\fILabel\fP,
\fIPushButton\fP, and
\fIBubbleButton\fP classes.
.PP 
The class pointer is \fIXltAnimatedButtonWidgetClass\fP.
.PP 
The class name is \fIXltAnimatedButton\fP.
.SS "New Resources"
The following table defines a set of widget resources used by the programmer
to specify data.  The programmer can also set the resource values for the
inherited classes to set attributes for this widget.  To reference a
resource by name or by class in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \fIXmN\fP or
\fIXmC\fP prefix and use the remaining letters.  To specify one of the defined
values for a resource in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \fIXm\fP prefix and use
the remaining letters (in either lowercase or uppercase, but include any
underscores between words).
The codes in the access column indicate if the given resource can be
set at creation time (C),
set by using \fIXtSetValues\fP (S),
retrieved by using \fIXtGetValues\fP (G), or is not applicable (N/A).
.P 
.sp 1
.in 0
.KS
.TS 
center;
cBp7 ssss
lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6
lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6.
 XltBubbleButton Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XltNanimate	XltCAnimate	Boolean	False	CSG
XltNanimationLabels	XltCAnimationLabels	XmStringTable	NULL	CSG
XltNanimationLabelCount	XltCAnimationLabelCount	int	0	CSG
XltNanimationPixmaps	XltCAnimationPixmaps	Pixmap *	NULL	CSG
XltNanimationPixmapCount	XltCAnimationPixmapCount	int	0	CSG
XltNstopAtFrame	XltCStopAtFrame	int	-1	CSG
XltNframeDelay	XltCFrameDelay	int	1000	CSG
.TE
.KE
.in
.sp 1
.IP "\fIXltNanimate\fP"
True when the animation is running.
.IP "\fIXltNanimationLabels\fP"
The animation frames to show if the Button is of type XmSTRING
.IP "\fIXltNanimationLabelCount\fP"
The number of strings in XltNanimationLabels
.IP "\fIXltNanimationPixmaps\fP"
The animation frames to show if the Button is of type XmPIXMAP
.IP "\fIXltNanimationPixmapCount\fP"
The number of strings in XltNanimationPixmaps
.IP "\fIXltNstopAtFrame\fP"
The frame to stop the animation at. -1 for continuous.
.IP "\fIXltNdelay\fP"
The number of milliseconds a frame is displayed.

.SS "Inherited Resources"
AnimatedButton inherits behavior and resources from the following
superclasses.  For a complete description of each resource, refer to the
man page for that superclass.
.P 
.sp 1
.in 0
.KS
.TS 
center;
cBp7 ssss
lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6
lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6.
 BubbleButton Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
.wH
.tH
.TE
.KE
.in
.sp 1
.wH
.in  

.SS "Behavior"
XltAnimatedButton behavior is described below:
.IP

.SS "Virtual Bindings"
The bindings for virtual keys are vendor specific.
For information about bindings for virtual buttons and keys, see \fIVirtualBindings(3X)\fP.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmBubbleButton(3X)\fP,
\fIXltCreateAnimatedButton(3X)\fP,
.ad
