'\" t
...\" ** $Id: XltBubbleButton.3.in,v 1.1 2001/06/22 21:38:52 amai Exp $
...\" **
.TH XltBubbleButton 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Rick Scott
.ds ]W Xlt Version 13.0.13
.SH NAME
\fIXltBubbleButton\fP \- The BubbleButton widget class
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xlt/BubbleButton.h>
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
BubbleButton is a sub-class of PushButton and inherits all of PushButton's
functionality.
.PP 
Next paragraph
.PP 
Next paragraph
.SS "Classes"
BubbleButton inherits behavior and resources from
\fICore\fP,
\fIPrimitive\fP,
\fILabel\fP, and
\fIPushButton\fP classes.
.PP 
The class pointer is \fIXltBubbleButtonWidgetClass\fP.
.PP 
The class name is \fIXltBubbleButton\fP.
.SS "New Resources"
The following table defines a set of widget resources used by the programmer
to specify data.  The programmer can also set the resource values for the
inherited classes to set attributes for this widget.  To reference a
resource by name or by class in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \fIXmN\fP or
\fIXmC\fP prefix and use the remaining letters.  To specify one of the defined
values for a resource in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \fIXm\fP prefix and use
the remaining letters (in either lowercase or uppercase, but include any
underscores between words).
The codes in the access column indicate if the given resource can be
set at creation time (C),
set by using \fIXtSetValues\fP (S),
retrieved by using \fIXtGetValues\fP (G), or is not applicable (N/A).
.P 
.sp 1
.in 0
.KS
.TS 
center;
cBp7 ssss
lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6
lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6.
 XltBubbleButton Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XltNbubbleString	XltCBubbleString	XmString	dynamic	CSG
XltNshowBubble	XltCShowBubble	Boolean	True	CSG
XltNdelay	XltCDelay	int	1000	CSG
XltNmouseOverString	XltCMouseOverString	XmString	NULL	CSG
XltNmouseOverPixmap	XltCMouseOverPixmap	Pixmap	None	CSG
XltNbubbleDuration	XltCBubbleDuration	int	0	CSG
.TE
.KE
.in
.sp 1
.IP "\fIXltNbubbleString\fP"
The string displayed in the bubble.
.IP "\fIXltNbubbleDuration\fP"
If the pointer remains within the button for this long, the bubble will be
un-posted. If this value is zero, the bubble remains posted as long as the
pointer is in the button. This resource is new as of release 5.0.5.
.IP "\fIXltNshowBubble\fP"
Used to enable/disable showing the bubble.
.IP "\fIXltNdelay\fP"
The time to wait before displaying the bubble.
.IP "\fIXltNmouseOverString\fP"
If not NULL and the labelType is XmSTRING, this is the string shown when the
pointer is in the window.
.IP "\fIXltNmouseOverPixmap\fP"
If not None and the labelType is XmPIXMAP, this is the pixmap shown when the
pointer is in the window.

.SS "Inherited Resources"
Host inherits behavior and resources from the following
superclasses.  For a complete description of each resource, refer to the
man page for that superclass.
.P 
.sp 1
.in 0
.KS
.TS 
center;
cBp7 ssss
lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6
lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6.
 PushButton Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
.wH
.tH
.TE
.KE
.in
.sp 1
.wH
.in  

.SS "Behavior"
XltBubbleButton behavior is described below:
.IP

.SS "Virtual Bindings"
The bindings for virtual keys are vendor specific.
For information about bindings for virtual buttons and keys, see \fIVirtualBindings(3X)\fP.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmPushButton(3X)\fP,
\fIXltCreateBubbleButton(3X)\fP,
.ad
