'\" t
.ds ]W Xlt Version 13.0.13
.TH "" 3 "" "Version 3.0" "Free Widget Foundation"
.SH NAME
XltFontChooser
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIXltFontChooser\fP widget allows a user to select a font by choosing
its XLFD font name fields.
The widget is subclassed from XmMessageBox which means it inherits its
behavior.
.PP
This is a rather simple widget (less than 600 lines),
it can create a hell of a widget hierarchy though.
.I "Editres"
will amaze you.

.SS "Public variables"

.ps -2
.TS
center box;
cBsss
lB|lB|lB|lB
l|l|l|l.
XltFontChooser
Name	Class	Type	Default
XltNshowDemo	XltCShowDemo	Boolean	True
XltNfontName	XltCFontName	String	NULL
XltNdemoString	XltCDemoString	String	"The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog."
XltNcountString	XltCCountString	String	"%d matching fonts"
XltNpattern	XltCPattern	String	"-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*"
XltNsortCriteria	XltNSortCriteria	String	"aaaaaannnnanaa"

.TE
.ps +2


.TP
.I "XltNshowDemo"
Whether to show a string in the font selected by the user.
(Or the first one that applies the selection, if multiple).

.TP
.I "XltNfontName"
This is the name of the selected font.

.TP
.I "XltNdemoString"
This string is shown to demonstrate the selected font.

.TP
.I "XltNcountString"
This string is used to print the amount of matching fonts.

.TP
.I "XltNpattern"
This string is used to specify the initial query for fonts.
The default value will retrieve all fonts with XLFD compliant names.

.TP
.I "XltNsortCriteria"
This string of exactly 14 characters indicates the sorting order used for
the menu buttons.
n or N mean numeric, a or A indicate alphabetic sort order,
any other character means don't sort.

.SS "Selected inherited resources"

.TP
.I "XmNokCallback"

Allows an application to get a call,
query XltNfontName using GetValues,
and take appropriate action.

.TP
.I "XmNcancelCallback"

.SH CLASS HIERARCHY

These manuals of the superclasses describe the inherited resources :
.PP
.BR Object (3)
.PP
.BR Rect (3)
.PP
.BR UnNamedObj (3)
.PP
.BR Core (3)
.PP
.BR XmManager (3)
.PP
.BR XmBulletinBoard (3)
.PP
.BR XmMessageBox (3)
