'\" t
...\" ** $Id: XltFilePicker.3.in,v 1.1 2001/06/22 21:38:52 amai Exp $
...\" **
.TH XltFilePicker 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Rick Scott
.ds ]W Xlt Version 13.0.13
.SH NAME
\fIXltFilePicker\fP \- The FilePicker widget class
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xlt/FilePicker.h>
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
XltFilePicker is a convenience widget composed of a XmLabel(3), XmTextField(3), 
and a XltBubbleButton(3).  A file name can be typed into the TextField or,
if you press the "Browse" button an XmFileSelectionDialog(3) is popped up.
Any selection made in the FileSelectionDialog is placed in the TextField.
.PP 
The user can specify resources in a resource file for the automatically
created widgets. The following is a list of the names of these widgets.
.PP 
Label \- "Label"
.PP 
TextField \- "Text"
.PP 
BubbleButton \- "Button"
.PP 
.SS "Classes"
FilePicker inherits behavior and resources from the
\fICore\fP, \fIComposite\fP, \fIConstraint\fP, \fIXmManager\fP, and
\fIXmForm\fP classes.
.PP 
The class pointer is \fIXltFilePickerWidgetClass\fP.
.PP 
The class name is \fIXltFilePicker\fP.
.SS "New Resources"
The following table defines a set of widget resources used by the programmer
to specify data.  The programmer can also set the resource values for the
inherited classes to set attributes for this widget.  To reference a
resource by name or by class in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \fIXmN\fP or
\fIXmC\fP prefix and use the remaining letters.  To specify one of the defined
values for a resource in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \fIXm\fP prefix and use
the remaining letters (in either lowercase or uppercase, but include any
underscores between words).
The codes in the access column indicate if the given resource can be
set at creation time (C),
set by using \fIXtSetValues\fP (S),
retrieved by using \fIXtGetValues\fP (G), or is not applicable (N/A).
.P 
.sp 1
.in 0
.KS
.TS 
center;
cBp7 ssss
lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6
lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6.
 XltFilePicker Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNfileSelectionDialog	XtCFileSelectionDialog	Widget	dynamic	CSG
XmNvalue	XmCValue	String	""	CSG
.TE
.KE
.in
.sp 1
.IP "\fIXmNfileSelectionDialog\fP"
This is the widget ID of the FileSelectionDialog to use.  If not specified
one is created and shared amongst all members of the class.
.IP "\fIXmNvalue\fP"
This is the same as the value of the TextField widget.

.SS "Inherited Resources"
NumEntry inherits behavior and resources from the following
superclasses.  For a complete description of each resource, refer to the
man page for that superclass.
.P 
.sp 1
.in 0
.KS
.TS 
center;
cBp7 ssss
lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6
lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6.
 Core Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNdestroyCallback	XmCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	C
XmNscreen	XmCScreen	Screen *	dynamic	CG
.wH
.tH
.TE
.KE
.in
.sp 1
.wH
.in  
.SS "Behavior"
XltFilePicker behavior is described below:
.IP
XltFilePicker is a convenience widget composed of a XmLabel(3), XmTextField(3), 
and a XltBubbleButton(3).  A file name can be typed into the TextField or,
if you press the "Browse" button an XmFileSelectionDialog(3) is popped up.
Any selection made in the FileSelectionDialog is placed in the TextField.

.SS "Virtual Bindings"
The bindings for virtual keys are vendor specific.
For information about bindings for virtual buttons and keys, see \fIVirtualBindings(3X)\fP.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXltCreateFilePicker(3X)\fP,
\fIXltFilePickerGetChild(3X)\fP,
\fIXltFilePickerGetString(3X)\fP,
\fIXltFilePickerSetString(3X)\fP,
.ad
