'\" t
...\" ** $Id: XltHost.3.in,v 1.3 2004/08/22 15:59:00 rwscott Exp $
...\" **
.TH XltHost 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Rick Scott
.ds ]W Xlt Version 13.0.13
.SH NAME
\fIXltHost\fP \- The Host widget class
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xlt/Host.h>
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
Host is used by an application to communicate with a process via a tcp/ip
socket connection.
.PP 
Next paragraph
.PP 
Next paragraph
.SS "Classes"
Host inherits behavior and resources from the
\fIObject\fP class.
.PP 
The class pointer is \fIXltHostWidgetClass\fP.
.PP 
The class name is \fIXltHost\fP.
.SS "New Resources"
The following table defines a set of widget resources used by the programmer
to specify data.  The programmer can also set the resource values for the
inherited classes to set attributes for this widget.  To reference a
resource by name or by class in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \fIXmN\fP or
\fIXmC\fP prefix and use the remaining letters.  To specify one of the defined
values for a resource in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \fIXm\fP prefix and use
the remaining letters (in either lowercase or uppercase, but include any
underscores between words).
The codes in the access column indicate if the given resource can be
set at creation time (C),
set by using \fIXtSetValues\fP (S),
retrieved by using \fIXtGetValues\fP (G), or is not applicable (N/A).
.P 
.sp 1
.in 0
.KS
.TS 
center;
cBp7 ssss
lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6
lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6.
 XltHost Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XltNasciiInputCallback	XtCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	C
XltNbinaryInputCallback	XtCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	C
XltNconnectCallback	XtCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	C
XltNdelay	XltCDelay	int	0	CSG
XltNdisconnectCallback	XtCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	C
XltNhostType	XtCHostType	unsigned char	XltHOST_CLIENT	CSG
XltNinputCallback	XtCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	C
XltNname	XltCName	String	"localhost"	CSG
XltNoutputCallback	XtCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	C
XltNport	XltCPort	String	dynamic	CSG
XltNterminator	XltCTerminator	String	"\\r\\n"	CSG
.TE
.KE
.in
.sp 1
.IP "\fIXltNasciiInputCallback\fP"
Specifies the list of callbacks that is called when
one line of input has been received. A line is terminated by
either \\r or \\n.  A blank line, "\\r\\n", will not invoke
the callback.
The reason sent by the callback is \fIXltCR_ASCIIINPUT\fP.
.IP "\fIXltNbinaryInputCallback\fP"
Specifies the list of callbacks that is called when
binary data is received. Binary data is defined according
to the Block Arguments in the Tektronix TekScope Programmer Manual.
The reason sent by the callback is \fIXltCR_BINARYINPUT\fP.
.IP "\fIXltNconnectCallback\fP"
Specifies the list of callbacks that is called when
the connection is established. A connection is not attempted
until the parent of the Host widget, usually the ApplicationShell,
has been realized.
The reason sent by the callback is \fIXltCR_CONNECT\fP.
.IP "\fIXmNdelay\fP"
Specifies the minimum amount of time to delay between sending
characters to the socket.
.IP "\fIXltNdisconnectCallback\fP"
Specifies the list of callbacks that is called when
the connection is closed.
The reason sent by the callback is \fIXltCR_DISCONNECT\fP.
.IP "\fIXltNhostType\fP"
Either XltHOST_CLIENT or XltHOST_SERVER.
.IP "\fIXltNinputCallback\fP"
Specifies the list of callbacks that is called when
data is received.
The reason sent by the callback is \fIXltCR_INPUT\fP.
.IP "\fIXltNname\fP"
Specifies the hostname to connect to, stdin if "-".
An XtGetValues on this resource returns a pointer to the actual string
in the widget. \fBDo not free this string.\fP If the hostType is XltHOST_SERVER
this resource is not used.
.IP "\fIXltNoutputCallback\fP"
Specifies the list of callbacks that is called when
data byte is transmitted.
.IP "\fIXltNport\fP"
Specifies the TCP service port to connect to. If not specified the name
of the application will be used.
An XtGetValues on this resource returns a pointer to the actual string
in the widget. \fBDo not free this string.\fP If the hostType is XltHOST_SERVER
this resource is the port that the listen socket is created on.
.IP "\fIXltNterminator\fP"
Specifies a string that is appended to data send by XltHostSendString(3x).
An XtGetValues on this resource returns a pointer to the actual string
in the widget. \fBDo not free this string.

.SS "Inherited Resources"
Host inherits behavior and resources from the following
superclasses.  For a complete description of each resource, refer to the
man page for that superclass.
.P 
.sp 1
.in 0
.KS
.TS 
center;
cBp7 ssss
lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6
lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6.
 Object Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNdestroyCallback	XmCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	C
XmNscreen	XmCScreen	Screen *	dynamic	CG
.wH
.tH
.TE
.KE
.in
.sp 1
.wH
.in  
.SS "Callback Information"
A pointer to the following structure is passed to each callback:
.sS
.iS
.ta .25i 1.1i
.nf
typedef struct
{
	int	\fBreason\fI;
	char	\fB* data\fI;
	int	\fBlen\fI;
	int	\fBinput_size\fI;
	int	\fBinput_need\fI;
} XltHostCallbackStruct;
.iE
.sE
.wH
.fi
.IP "\fBreason\fP"
Indicates why the callback was invoked
.IP "\fBdata\fP"
Points to the data that triggered the callback.
This is undefined if reason is XltCR_CONNECT.
.IP "\fBlen\fP"
Is the amount of data pointed to by data.
This is undefined if reason is XltCR_CONNECT.
This is the amount of data in the output queue if the reason is XltCR_OUTPUT.
This is the amount of data read, but not yet processed, if the reason is
XltCR_INPUT. Setting this field to 0 in the callback will ignore the data.
.IP "\fBinput_size\fP"
Is the amount of binary data received so far.
This is only defined if reason is XltCR_INPUT and is only meaningful
during a binary data transfer.
.IP "\fBinput_need\fP"
Is the amount of binary data we expect to receive.
This is only defined if reason is XltCR_INPUT and is only meaningful
during a binary data transfer.
.SS "Behavior"
XltHost behavior is described below:
.IP
Host will attempt to make a connection to the host name
and port when its parent, which should be the ApplicationShell,
is realized. If the name or port is changed the current connection
is closed and a new connection will be established.  The connection
callback is called when the stream is successfully opened. If the hostType is
XltHOST_SERVER the listen socket is created when the parent is realized. 
Clients that connect to this port will then receive all of the data sent
with XltHostSendData/XltHostSendString.

Data sent to the Host, via XltHostSendData(3x) or XltHostSendString(3x),
is sent to the stream one byte at a time with a delay of XltNdelay
between bytes.  Additionally, XltHostSendString will append the 
XltNTerminator string to the data.

Data read from the stream is collected and passed to the various
input callbacks as appropriate.

.SS "Virtual Bindings"
The bindings for virtual keys are vendor specific.
For information about bindings for virtual buttons and keys, see \fIVirtualBindings(3X)\fP.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIObject(3X)\fP,
\fIXltCreateHost(3X)\fP,
\fIXltHostSelect(3X)\fP,
\fIXltHostSendData(3X)\fP,
\fIXltHostSendString(3X)\fP,
\fIXltHostCreateTranscript(3X)\fP, and
\fIXltHostDiscardOutput(3X)\fP.
.ad
