'\" t
...\" ** $Id: XltSlideContext.3.in,v 1.1 2001/06/22 21:38:52 amai Exp $
...\" **
.TH XltSlideContext 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Rick Scott
.ds ]W Xlt Version 13.0.13
.SH NAME
\fIXltSlideContext\fP \- The SlideContext widget class
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xlt/SlideC.h>
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
SlideContext can be used to change a widgets geometry over a period of
time.
.PP 
Next paragraph
.PP 
Next paragraph
.SS "Classes"
SlideContext inherits behavior and resources from the
\fIObject\fP class.
.PP 
The class pointer is \fIXltSlideContextWidgetClass\fP.
.PP 
The class name is \fIXltSlideContext\fP.
.SS "New Resources"
The following table defines a set of widget resources used by the programmer
to specify data.  The programmer can also set the resource values for the
inherited classes to set attributes for this widget.  To reference a
resource by name or by class in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \fIXmN\fP or
\fIXmC\fP prefix and use the remaining letters.  To specify one of the defined
values for a resource in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \fIXm\fP prefix and use
the remaining letters (in either lowercase or uppercase, but include any
underscores between words).
The codes in the access column indicate if the given resource can be
set at creation time (C),
set by using \fIXtSetValues\fP (S),
retrieved by using \fIXtGetValues\fP (G), or is not applicable (N/A).
.P 
.sp 1
.in 0
.KS
.TS 
center;
cBp7 ssss
lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6
lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6.
 XltSlideContext Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XltNslideFinishCallback	XtCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	C
XltNslideMotionCallback	XtCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	C
XltNslideWidget	XtCSlideWidget	Widget	NULL	C
XltNslideInterval	XtCSlideInterval	int	10	C
XltNslideDestWidth	XtCSlideDestWidth	Dimension	variable	C
XltNslideDestHeight	XtCSlideDestHeight	Dimension	variable	C
XltNslideDestX	XtCSlideDestX	Position	variable	C
XltNslideDestY	XtCSlideDestY	Position	variable	C
.TE
.KE
.in
.sp 1
.IP "\fIXltNslideFinishCallback\fP"
Specifies the list of callbacks that is called when
the widget reaches it's destination.
.IP "\fIXltNslideMotionCallback\fP"
Specifies the list of callbacks that is called when
the widget geometry changes.
.IP "\fIXltNslideWidget\fP"
The widget to alter.
.IP "\fIXltNslideInterval\fP"
The time between each geometry change.
.IP "\fIXltNslideDestWidth\fP"
If not specified, the current value is used.
.IP "\fIXltNslideDestHeight\fP"
If not specified, the current value is used.
.IP "\fIXltNslideDestX\fP"
If not specified, the current value is used.
.IP "\fIXltNslideDestY\fP"
If not specified, the current value is used.

.SS "Inherited Resources"
SlideContext inherits behavior and resources from the following
superclasses.  For a complete description of each resource, refer to the
man page for that superclass.
.P 
.sp 1
.in 0
.KS
.TS 
center;
cBp7 ssss
lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6
lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6.
 Object Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNdestroyCallback	XmCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	C
XmNscreen	XmCScreen	Screen *	dynamic	CG
.wH
.tH
.TE
.KE
.in
.sp 1
.wH
.in  
.SS "Callback Information"
A pointer to the following structure is passed to each callback:
.sS
.iS
.ta .25i 1.1i
.nf
typedef struct
{
	int	\fBreason\fI;
} XltSlideContextCallbackStruct;
.iE
.sE
.wH
.fi
.IP "\fBreason\fP"
Indicates why the callback was invoked
.SS "Behavior"
XltSlideContext behavior is described below:
.IP

.SS "Virtual Bindings"
The bindings for virtual keys are vendor specific.
For information about bindings for virtual buttons and keys, see \fIVirtualBindings(3X)\fP.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIObject(3X)\fP,
.ad
