
INSTALLATION
============


(1) IF YOU INSTALL FROM THE SOURCES:

Xplore requires the Xpm library (version 3.4 or later) and Motif 2.x to
compile. The present release has been tested on SuSE Linux 8 and Solaris 8,
but should compile - with minor tweaking - on most POSIXish systems with
recent X11 and Motif 2.x libraries and working imake. (Please send me your
patches needed to compile xplore on other platforms so that I can include them
in the next release.)

Take a look at `Xplore.tmpl' and edit it as needed. You can specify
alternative destination paths if you do not have write permissions for the
standard X11 directories, by editing the `Destination directories' section at
the beginning of the `Xplore.tmpl' file accordingly. You can also specify
include and library paths for the Motif and Xpm libraries, and there is a
USE_GCC option to build the program with the GNU C compiler.

For less common types of UNIX systems, the hairiest part probably is the
`System dependencies' section, which is needed to select the proper interface
for accessing the file system statistics and the mount table. If this doesn't
work for your system, please let me know so that we can try to fix it.

Now run `xmkmf -a' and `make', and hope for the best :). TIPS: If `xmkmf -a'
doesn't work, try `xmkmf; make Makefiles; make depend' instead. If imake
doesn't work at all for you, you can try to use the provided Makefiles, but
you'll probably have to edit them manually to fit your local setup. If your C
compiler gives trouble, try using gcc (available from www.fsf.org) instead.

If all goes well, you should now have an xplore binary and you can try out
xplore by running the `xplore-test' shell script in the source directory. To
actually install the programs along with app-defaults and configuration files,
icons and manpages, run `make install' and `make install.man'. (You may have
to become root to gain the necessary permissions if you install in the
standard places.)


(2) IF YOU INSTALL FROM A BINARY DISTRIBUTION:

Binary distributions for different systems in a variety of formats are
available from the xplore homepage. See

	http://www.musikwissenschaft.uni-mainz.de/~ag/xplore.

(At the time of this writing, only Linux and Solaris x86 binaries are
available, as these currently are the only system with Motif 2.x I have access
to. If you can contribute binaries for other systems, please let me know.)

All binary packages are generally distributed in two different formats:

- Compressed tarballs, which are ready to be untarred in /. E.g., if you have
  GNU tar, you can untar a gzipped packages as follows (assuming that / is the
  current directory):

	tar xfvz <pkg-name>.tar.gz

  If your tar program does not support the z option, you must first unzip
  the package and then run tar on the uncompressed tar file:

	gunzip <pkg-name>.tar.gz; tar xfv <pkg-name>.tar

  Tarballs with the .tar.bz2 extension have been compressed with bzip2. These
  are usually smaller, so they are preferred if you have bunzip2. Installation
  then goes as follows:

	bunzip2 <pkg-name>.tar.bz2; tar xfv <pkg-name>.tar

- Installable packages (RPM format for Linux, PKG format for Solaris). RPMS
  can be installed with the RedHat package manager:

	rpm -i <pkg-name>.rpm

  (Use the -U option instead of -i if you are upgrading an existing
  installation.)

  Solaris PKG files are compressed, hence you must uncompress them before
  running the pkgadd command:

	gunzip <pkg-name>.pkg.gz; pkgadd -d <pkg-name>.pkg


(3) COMPLETING THE INSTALLATION:

After having performed either step (1) or (2), xplore should be ready to be
used with the standard setup as described in the xplore(1) manual page. The
xplore library directory (usually `/usr/X11/lib/X11/xplore', but this may vary
from system to system) contains the system-wide configuration files
(`system.xplorerc' and `magic') and the `setup' and `startup' scripts.

The setup script and the system.xplorerc file probably have to be edited to
reflect your local system setup. In particular, take a look at the device
descriptions at the beginning of the system.xplorerc file and the user
installation procedure in the setup script. If you have CDE, GNOME or KDE
installed, you might wish to uncomment the corresponding #define at the
beginning of the system.xplorerc file, which replaces vanilla X11 programs
with apps from the corresponding desktop environment. If you have KDE, you
should also copy the generic KDE color scheme file /usr/X11/lib/X11/xplore/
schemes/Xplore.ad to the <kde-prefix>/share/apps/kdisplay/app-defaults
directory. This make xplore adapt to the color scheme selected within the KDE
control panel.

For reading the online documentation you need to have a suitable browser
installed. Currently either netscape or mozilla is required. If you do not
have these, or xplore cannot find them, you will have to change the
netscape-remote script in the xplore library directory accordingly. You can
also set the name of the browser program with the NETSCAPE environment
variable.

ICONS:

The distribution includes a fairly extensive collection of icons in XPM format
which I derived from material in the Cica archive and Juan D. Martin's
fileicon collection included in the xfm distribution. Some application icons
pilfered from KDE and GNOME are included as well. The icons are installed in
the `icons' subdirectory of the xplore library directory. Of course you can
also use your own icons by editing the `system.xplorerc' file accordingly. To
change xplore's icon search path, edit the `iconpath' resource in the Xplore
application defaults file. A few default icon names are hard-coded into
xplore; to change these, you will have to replace the corresponding icon files
(see the `names' variable at the beginning of icons.c in the sources). Note
that xplore currently only supports icons in XPM format. However, most other
image formats can easily be converted to XPM using the ImageMagick tools.


Happy xploring!

Aug 2002

Albert Graef (ag@muwiinfa.geschichte.uni-mainz.de)
Department of Musicinformatics
Johannes Gutenberg-University Mainz
Germany

