.TH XPLORETYPE 1 "Apr 20 1997" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xploretype \- xplore file type tester
.sp
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xploretype
[-m \fImagic_file\fP] [-f] \fIfilename\fP ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIxploretype\fP program reads a magic configuration file and tests each
file in its command line to tell its type according to the magic file.
.PP
The format of the magic file is the same as that of the standard UNIX
\fBmagic\fP(4) file with the following additions and differences:
.TP 4
\fBmode\fP type field.
Similar to \fBlong\fP type, but \fIoffset\fP is ignored.  The test is
performed against the \fBst_mode\fP field of the \fIstat\fP structure
obtained using \fBstat\fP(2) system call. This allows testing for 
directories, fifos ... as well as for file permissions.
.TP 4
\fBlmode\fP type field.
Similar to \fBmode\fP type, but using \fIlstat\fP(2) instead of
\fBstat\fP(2). This allows testing for symbolic links.
.TP 4
\fBbuiltin\fP type field.
The test succeeds if the built-in type of the file is the same as the
value field. The built-in type of the file is the type returned when
all the tests fail. Currently these are the built-in types:
.nf
.sp
\fI"unreadable"\fP The file could not be read.
.sp
\fI"emptydir"\fP File is an empty directory.
.sp
\fI"directory"\fP File is a nonempty directory.
.sp
\fI"special"\fP Not a regular file.
.sp
\fI"empty"\fP File size is zero.
.sp
\fI"ascii"\fP The file looks like ascii.
.sp
\fI"data"\fP None of the above.
.sp
.fi
.TP 4
\fBregexp\fP type field.
The \fIvalue\fP field must be a proper regular expression. The bytes
starting at \fIoffset\fP are matched against it. If the match succeeds,
then a \fBregsub\fP(3) is performed on \fImessage\fP yielding the final
message. If the type field is of the form \fBregexp&nnn\fP where \fBnnn\fP
is a positive number, then that number controls the amount of data scanned
for the matching, otherwise a compile defined value (currently 256) is used.
.TP 4
\fBlong\fP and \fBshort\fP byte order.
\fIxploretype\fP always reads \fBlong\fPs and \fBshort\fPs using MSB-first
order. This makes configuration files portable to all architectures, but
some entries in original \fBmagic\fP(4) files might be wrong.
.TP 4
Continuation lines.
If a line ends with a \fIbackslash\fP character (\fI\\\fP), it is continued
with the following line. The maximum length of a line is 1024 characters
(counting also characters in continuation lines).
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 4
.B \-f \fIfile\fP
Consider the following argument as a file, even if it begins with `-'.
.TP 4
.B \-m \fIfile\fP
Specifies the magic file to be used for testing file types. By default,
\fBxploretype\fP uses the system-wide \fBmagic\fP file in the \fBxplore\fP
library directory. The \fB-m\fP option can be used to test against alternative
magic files. Multiple magic files may be specified; they are considered in the
order in which they are found on the command line. Each file on the command
line is tested against the magic file of the most recent \fB-m\fP
option. Files specified before the first \fB-m\fP option are tested against
the default magic file.
.SH BUGS
Bad configuration lines cause undefined behavior. In general they are
silently ignored, but that is not guaranteed.
.PP
There are no warning or error messages except for the regular expression
syntax.
.PP
There should be a syntax checking mode.
.PP
All of the above apply to \fIxplore\fP too.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xplore (1x),
.BR file (1),
.BR magic (4),
.BR stat (2),
.BR lstat (2),
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 1995 CNM-US
.br
Copyright (c) 1995 Juan D. Martin
.SH AUTHOR
Juan D. Martin (juando@cnm.us.es); slightly modified for use with \fBxplore\fP
by Albert Graef (ag@muwiinfa.geschichte.uni-mainz.de)
