.TH xtar 1
.SH NAME
xtar 1.4 \- view contents of a tar file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xtar
.RI [ Xoptions ]
.RI [ tarfile\c
.RI [ .gz\c
.RI | .Z ]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
XTar is a Motif program for viewing and manipulating tar archives
(which may be compressed).
The contents of the archive are displayed in the main window
and various options are available from pulldown and popup menus.
.PP
The main window shows the name of the file currently displayed,
its size and its size when unpacked.
.PP
The main XTar pulldown menu has the following options:
.nr n \w'EXTRACT AS...\0\0\0\0'+1n-1/1n
.IP OPEN \nn
Open a new tar file.
.IP "UNPACK ALL" \nn
Unpack the entire archive.
All files are extracted
in the same directory as the tar archive itself.
.IP "UNPACK ALL AS..." \nn
Unpack the entire archive somewhere else.
This
allows you to select another location to extract
the tar archive.
You can interactively select a
directory from the file selection box or type in the
name of a new directory which will be created.
.IP "SEARCH..." \nn
Perform a regular expression search on the FILENAMES
in the tar file.
This can also be activated by
pressing '/' in the main window.
.IP NEXT \nn
Search for the next occurence of the regular
expression.
This can also be activated by pressing
'n' in the main window.
.IP "CONVERT UID/GID" \nn
Convert user IDs and group IDs to names on
the current system.
.IP QUIT \nn
Exit XTar.
.PP
The Option pulldown menu allows you to perform actions on the currently
selected file.
A similar menu is available by pressing the right mouse button
in the list window.
Furthermore if you set the resource "showPB" to True then
buttons are displayed at the bottom of the main window to perform these
actions too.
They are as follows:
.IP VIEW \nn
View a file.
This uses the XTar resource "mappings" to
display the selected file.
If the file ending matches
one in the list then the appropriate external viewer
is called; otherwise it is assumed to be text and a
window is opened.
The text window also shows the
currently selected file and its size.
.IP EXTRACT \nn
If you have selected a file, this extracts that file
into the current directory.
If you have selected a
directory this unpacks it in the same directory as the
the tar file.
.IP "EXTRACT AS..." \nn
Allows you to save the file or directory under another
name.
If you try and extract a directory into a
directory which does not exist, then it is created
first.
.PP
The Set Attributes pulldown menu allows you to set permissions, ownership,
and, if you are root, the group id and time stamp, on extracted files.
To enable these options simply toggle the corresponding button.
.PP
The Info pulldown menu allows you to access copyright information and the
xtar man page.
.SH AUTHOR
Rik Turnbull,
University of Liverpool
<rik@csc.liv.ac.uk>
